INGREDIENTS

1 kombu (dried kelp) (10 g, 3" x 3" or 7.5 cm x 7.5 cm)
1 package udon noodles (9 oz/250 g) (I like Sanuki Udon)
8 leaves napa cabbage (12 oz/340 g)
½ bunch shungiku (Tong Ho/Garland Chrysanthemum) (4 oz/113 g)
1 Negi (long green onion) (4 oz/113 g)(Use 2 green onions)
1 package enoki mushrooms (7 oz/200 g)
1 package shimeji mushrooms (3.5 oz/100 g)
4 shiitake mushrooms (2.3 oz/65 g)
2 inches carrot (2.3 oz/65 g)
1 package medium firm tofu (14 oz/396 g)
1 lb thinly sliced beef (chuck or rib eye) (450 g)(Remember 4-5 oz/113-140 g per person)

To Serve
2 inches daikon radish (5 oz/143 g)
2 green onions/scallions (0.9 oz/25 g)
Shichimi Togarashi 
Sesame Sauce 
Ponzu 

INSTRUCTIONS
Gather all the ingredients.

To Prepare Broth
Fill a donabe (Dutch oven or any large pot) two-thirds full with water. 
Add kombu and soak in water for at least 30 minutes. 
The right image shows the result after 30 minutes.

To Prepare Ingredients
Prepare udon noodles according to the instructions. 
Put frozen udon in a boiling water and reheat for 1 minute. 
Transfer to iced water to stop cooking with remaining, and drain well. 
Serve on a plate and set aside.

Cut napa cabbages into 2-inch (5 cm) pieces, 
and then cut each piece into half or thirds.

Cut the shungiku into 2-inch (5 cm) pieces.

We only use the white part of negi (green onion/leeks). 
Cut it diagonally into ½ inch (1.3 cm) thick pieces.

Rinse enoki and shimeji mushrooms. 
Discard the bottom of both mushrooms and separate into smaller chunks.

Cut the stem of shiitake mushrooms. 

Cut the carrot into ¼ inch rounds.
 If you like, you can use a vegetable cutter to create a flower shape.

Cut the tofu into 1 inch (2.5 cm) thick square pieces. 

Arrange all the ingredients on a serving platter. 

Peel daikon and grate using a grater. 
Squeeze grated daikon gently and put in a small bowl.  

Cut the green onions into thin rounds and put it in a bowl.

Prepare shichimi togarashi in a bowl (optional). 
Lay the thinly sliced beef on a plate.


To Cook Shabu Shabu

Set a portable gas burner and put the donabe on the stove. 
Place platters with ingredients on the table.
 Give each person a ponzu sauce and sesame sauce. 
Prepare an additional bowl for each person so they can use 
it to cool the food. 

Bring the broth to a simmer over medium heat. 
Take out the kombu right before water starts to boil 
(otherwise, the water gets slimy).

Add the tofu, the tough part of napa cabbage and shungiku,
 negi, carrots, and some mushrooms. You don’t have to put all the 
ingredients and cook in batches. Cover to cook for 10 minutes.


To Eat Shabu Shabu

While you’re waiting for the food to cook, 
prepare your dipping sauces. Add grated daikon, 
shichimi togarashi, and green onion in ponzu,
 and green onion in sesame sauce. 

When you want to eat meat, 
pick up a slice of thinly sliced beef with a set 
of communal chopsticks and stir the meat in the boiling
 broth to cook for 10 seconds, or until the meat is no longer pink.
 Do not overcook the meat.

Take out the cooked beef and vegetables
 from the pot when they are done, and dip the food
 in ponzu or sesame sauce.

Add remaining ingredients in the boiling broth as needed and simmer 
for a few minutes. Skim off the scum and fat from the broth as 
you repeat cooking. Prepare a fine mesh skimmer and a 2-cup measuring
 cup or bowl filled with water at the table so you can easily skim as you cook. Water in the measuring cup will help you get rid of scum from the skimmer.
Occasionally skim the scum and foam in the shabu shabu hot pot.
When all the ingredients are cooked, skim the broth for udon noodles. 
Typically, hot pot meal ends with cooking udon noodles or porridge. 

Add udon noodles in the pot and reheat for 1-2 minutes. 
Lightly season the udon soup with salt and white pepper, 
if you like (optional).

Dilute the ponzu sauce with the broth and serve udon noodles.  